When shooting photos or videos, the logo, characters,
or pictures of celebrities may appear in them.
There are signs and ads everywhere.
This time, the character from the poster was in the video,
and that seems to be illegal.
Yes. It was a bit careless. I’m planning to upload this video
to the website. Is there any problem with that?
For copying posters and other works like this one,
the provisions concerning the “Exploitation of Incidentally
Captured Works” that limit copyright shall apply.
Exploitation of Incidentally Captured Works?
In short, incidentally captured works mean another copyrighted
work, such as works captured in photographs.
As the Article says incidentally,
it is necessary to shoot with the main subject
rather than shoot with the aim of capturing copyrighted work.
In this case, the main focus of the video is on the person working,
which is considered incidentally captured work.
If the scene’s purpose is to make the lab poster mainly
recognizable, it will not be incidental.
I see. This time, the angle was focused on the worker,
so that was good.
I’m relieved. Incidentally captured works, I should remember this!
When does this provision apply as the exploitation of incidentally
captured works?
Yes, let’s touch on that point now.
Requirements for captured works
The copyrighted work should be incidentally captured with the
main subject.
The captured copyrighted work should remain a minor part.
The exploitation is within a reasonable scope.
The interests of the copyright owner
shall not be unreasonably prejudiced.
It’s pretty abstract...
I’ll explain what it means, including that.
A woman is speaking.
Firstly, let’s look at cases where the Article applies.
The Article of the Copyright Law includes
“the act of taking a photograph, making a sound recording, broadcasting, or otherwise reproducing the image or sound of a subject matter, or transmitting it without reproduction.”
In other words, the Article applies to photographs and video
shoots and situations such as live streaming on YouTube.
The Article also applies to screenshots taken on PC screens.
Hmm, so, it applies to YouTube live streaming too.
Yes. For example, when shooting a video on the street and music
from a nearby store is also in the video, will be no problem.
More specifically, it includes not only those situations where
creativity is recognized but also those where creativity is not
recognized,
such as photography with fixed cameras.
What is the third requirement for captured works, within a just scope?
I was thinking that it was very abstract.
Within a just scope shall be determined in light of factors
such as whether or not
there is an intention to obtain profits from the use of
a copyrighted work.
The decision will be made based on factors such as the role of the copyrighted work, and the degree of difficulty in separating it.
Specifically, in order to prevent people from intentionally including copyrighted material in works in order to obtain economic profits, evaluations are made in light of various factors,
such as whether there is any profit-making intent behind the use of the captured copyrighted works.
For example, to attract viewers’ interest in online distribution,
it is unlikely that intentionally displaying famous or well-known
characters in a scene will be accepted as just scope.
Ah, that’s what I’m talking about. I understand.
Finally, I will explain that copyright owners’ interests are not
unreasonably prejudiced.
The act of not unreasonably prejudicing the interests of the copyright owner shall be determined
in light of the type and use of the copyrighted work and the
manner of its use.
For example, suppose the work captured in a photo was a
valuable piece,
even if the image is a reflection, if the use of the image causes economic damage to the copyright owner,
it may be judged that the copyright owner’s interests were
unreasonably prejudiced.
The use of copyrighted works is permitted only to the extent that
it does not unreasonably prejudice the interests of the copyright
owner, so you must be careful.
The Agency for Cultural Affairs provides examples of
“captured work” of copyrighted works
that do not require copyright owners’ licensing and those where you need to obtain a license.
Please check out the contents too.
So, if I want to use the photos and videos I took,
are there any requirements?
Photographs, etc., containing the incidentally captured works
may be used without any restrictions.
However, this is also limited to cases that do not prejudice the
interests of copyright owners.
This time, the main focus was on the work scene, so there was
no problem with the characters appearing in the picture,
and it was okay to release a video introducing the lab.
Yes, no problem.
It’s good.
Actually, the person I asked to attend is a bit of a scary person.
I was afraid of what they would say if we had to reshoot.
Good for you!
I learned a lot as a result. Thank me for noticing!
Yeah. I guess so.
Mm-hmm.